DOCS-821: Add Power Sensor Component (#1766)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/power-sensor/_index.md

tags: ["sensor", "components", "power sensor", "ina219", "ina226", "renogy"]
icon: "/icons/components/sensor.svg"
images: ["/icons/components/sensor.svg"]
# SME: #team-bucket
---

A power sensor is a device that reports measurements of the voltage, current and power consumption in your robot's system.
Integrate this component to monitor your power levels.

## Configuration

For configuration information, click on your sensor’s model:

Model | Description <a name="model-table"></a>
----- | -----------
[`fake`](./fake/) | a digital power sensor for testing
[`ina219`](./ina219/) | INA219 power sensor; current and power monitor
[`ina226`](./ina226/) | INA219 power sensor; current and power monitor
[`renogy`](./renogy/) | solar charge controller

## Control your power sensor with Viam’s client SDK libraries

To get started using Viam's SDKs to connect to and control your robot, go to your robot's page on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **Code sample** tab, select your preferred programming language, and copy the sample code generated.

{{% snippet "show-secret.md" %}}

When executed, this sample code will create a connection to your robot as a client.

> Then control your robot programmatically by adding API method calls as shown in the following examples.

Reviewer: opt:

```suggestion
Once connected, you can control your robot programmatically by adding API method calls as shown in the following examples.
```

Just for a little segue, if you agree.

These examples assume you have a power sensor called `"my_power_sensor"` configured as a component of your robot.
If your power sensor has a different name, change the `name` in the code.

> Be sure to import the power sensor package for the SDK you are using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import the power sensor package for the SDK you are using:
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

```python
from viam.components.powersensor import powersensor
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

```go
import (
  "go.viam.com/rdk/components/powersensor"
)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## API

The power sensor component supports the following methods:

{{< readfile "/static/include/components/apis/power-sensor.md" >}}

### GetCurrent

Return the current of a specified device and whether it is AC or DC.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str,Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

> - `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Specify a time limit (in seconds) for how long `get_current` should wait for a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Specify a time limit in seconds for how long `get_current` should wait for a response.
```

nit: We can probably inline the time measurement specification directly.

**Returns:**

> - [(Tuple[float, bool])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): A float representing the current reading in amps. A bool indicating whether the current is AC (True) or DC (False).

Reviewer: This returns the value `true` and `false`, correct? If these are verbatim output from the command, let's render them in monospace with matching case. Let's also specify that the return is a tuple, formed of a float and a bool:

```suggestion
- [(Tuple[float, bool])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): A tuple which includes a float representing the current reading in amps, and a bool indicating whether the current is AC (`true`) or DC (`false`).
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/power_sensor/power_sensor/index.html#viam.components.power_sensor.power_sensor.PowerSensor.get_current).

```python
# Get the current reading from the power sensor
current, is_ac = await my_power_sensor.get_current()
print("The current is ", current, " A, Is AC: ", is_ac)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [Context](https://pkg.go.dev/context): Control the lifecycle of the operation by handling timeouts and managing cancellations.
- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

**Returns:**

- `float64`: The measurement of the current, represented as a 64-bit float number.

> - `bool`: Indicate whether current is AC (True) or DC (False).

Reviewer: Same nit here:

```suggestion
- `bool`: Indicate whether current is AC (`true`) or DC (`false`).
```

> - `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation. Successful operation will be `nil`.

Reviewer: nit: we use a convention of a single line per sentence. Also, I've proposed a slight rephrase of the second sentence if you agree:

```suggestion
- `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation.
   For a successful operation, `error` returns `nil`.
```

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/powersensor#PowerSensor).

```go
// Create a power sensor instance
myPowerSensor, err := powersensor.FromRobot(robot, "my_power_sensor")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatalf("cannot get power sensor: %v", err)
}

// Get the current reading from device in amps
current, isAC, err := myPowerSensor.Current(context.Background(), nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GetVoltage

Return the voltage reading of a specified device and whether it is AC or DC.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

> - `timeout`[(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): Specify a time limit (in seconds) for how long `get_voltage` should wait for a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `timeout`[(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): Specify a time limit in seconds for how long `get_voltage` should wait for a response.
```

**Returns:**

> - [(Tuple[float, bool])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html): A float representing the current reading in amps. A bool indicating whether the voltage is AC (True) or DC (False).

Reviewer: nit: in addition to `true` / `false`, let's specify that we return a tuple, formed of a float and a bool.:

```suggestion
- [(Tuple[float, bool])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html): A tuple which includes a float representing the current reading in amps, and a bool indicating whether the voltage is AC (`true`) or DC (`false`).
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/power_sensor/power_sensor/index.html#viam.components.power_sensor.power_sensor.PowerSensor.get_voltage).

```Python
# Get the voltage reading from the power sensor
    voltage, is_ac = await my_power_sensor.get_voltage()
    print("The voltage is", voltage, "V, Is AC:", is_ac)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [Context](https://pkg.go.dev/context): Control the lifecycle of the operation by handling timeouts and managing cancellations.
- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

**Returns:**

- `float64`: The measurement of the voltage, represented as a 64-bit float number.

> - `bool`: Indicate whether voltage is AC (True) or DC (False).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `bool`: Indicate whether the voltage is AC (`true`) or DC (`false`).
```

> - `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation. Successful operation will be `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation.
   For a successful operation, `error` returns `nil`.
```

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/powersensor#PowerSensor).

```Go
// Create a power sensor instance
myPowerSensor, err := powersensor.FromRobot(robot, "my_power_sensor")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatalf("cannot get power sensor: %v", err)
}

// Get the voltage from device in volts
voltage, isAC, err := myPowerSensor.Voltage(context.Background(), nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GetPower

Return the power reading in watts.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

> - `timeout`[(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): Specify a time limit (in seconds) for how long `get_power` should wait for a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `timeout`[(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): Specify a time limit in seconds for how long `get_power` should wait for a response.
```

**Returns:**

> - `float`: The measurement of the power, represented as a float number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `float`: The measurement of the power in watts, represented as a float.
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/power_sensor/power_sensor/index.html#viam.components.power_sensor.power_sensor.PowerSensor.get_power).

```Python
# Get the power reading from the power sensor
    power = await my_power_sensor.get_power()
    print("The power is", power, "Watts")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [Context](https://pkg.go.dev/context): Control the lifecycle of the operation by handling timeouts and managing cancellations.
- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

**Returns:**

- `float64`: The measurement of the power, represented as a 64-bit float number.

> - `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation. Successful operation will be `nil`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `error`: Report any errors that might occur during operation.
   For a successful operation, `error` returns `nil`.
```

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/powersensor#PowerSensor).

```Go
// Create a power sensor instance
myPowerSensor, err := powersensor.FromRobot(robot, "my_power_sensor")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatalf("cannot get power sensor: %v", err)
}

// Get the power measurement from device in watts
power, err := myPowerSensor.Power(context.Background(), nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Troubleshooting

You can find additional assistance in the [Troubleshooting section](/appendix/troubleshooting/).

You can also ask questions on the [Viam Community Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/viamrobotics/shared_invite/zt-1f5xf1qk5-TECJc1MIY1MW0d6ZCg~Wnw) and we will be happy to help.

## Next Steps

{{< cards >}}

>   {{% card link="/tutorials/projects/tipsy" %}}

Reviewer: For Next Steps sections like these, we like to link to tutorials that use the component, to give the user a chance to see the component they just learned about in action. But the Tipsy robot does not use a power sensor I believe. It's fine to not have a next steps section if we don't have any tutorials that use this component.

---
title: "Power Sensor Component"
linkTitle: "Power Sensor"
childTitleEndOverwrite: "Power Sensor"
weight: 70
no_list: true
type: "docs"
description: "A device that provides information about a robot's systems, including voltage, current, and power consumption."
tags: ["sensor", "components", "power sensor", "ina219", "ina226", "renogy"]
icon: "/icons/components/sensor.svg"
images: ["/icons/components/sensor.svg"]
# SME: #team-bucket
---

A power sensor is a device that reports measurements of the voltage, current and power consumption in your robot's system.

> It plays a crucial role in monitoring and managing power usage in different applications.

Reviewer 2: this description LGTM!! Could also add something directive being like "Integrate this into your robot to... monitor power on your robot's system"

**Returns:**

- [(Tuple[float, bool])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): A float representing the current reading in amps. A bool indicating whether the current is AC (True) or DC (False).

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/power_sensor/power_sensor/index.html#viam.components.power_sensor.power_sensor.PowerSensor.get_current).

```python
# Get the current reading from the power sensor
current, is_ac = await my_power_sensor.get_current()
print("The current is ", current, " A, Is AC: ", is_ac)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [Context](https://pkg.go.dev/context): Control the lifecycle of the operation by handling timeouts and managing cancellations.

- `extra`[(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Pass additional data and configuration options to the [RPC call](/appendix/glossary/#term-grpc).

**Returns:**

- `float64`: The measurement of the current, represented as a 64-bit float number.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- `bool`: Indicate whether current is AC (True) or DC (False).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think usually we don't space them out!
